Mouse Retina Connectomics Multilayer Analysis
========================

Author: Robin Duvoisin
contact: rduvoisin@bluewin.ch
Date: 20.01.2024
Subject: Complex Network Project

The python Jupyter notebook contains the analysis of the Retinal connectome that originated from the article:

[Connectomic reconstruction of the inner plexiform layer in the mouse
retina]

http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v500/n7461/full/nature12346.html

by Moritz Helmstaedter, Kevin L. Briggman,,Srinivas C. Turaga, Viren
Jain, H. Sebastian Seung and Winfried Denk (08 August 2013)

The processing steps originated from Eric Jonas (circuitdata/mouseretina) on Github.

The repository contains 3 IPYNB files:

1) Graph_extraction : Extraction of the information of interest from the dataset. Extraction of a multigraph and a weighted graph. 3D visualization of the network to grasp the density and the organisation of the network.

2) Draw_multigraph : Visualization of the multilayer graph with the Python package Pymnet (available on Github)

3) Graph_Analysis : Multilayer analysis. It contains the 3 algorithms specific for interconnected multilayers (Mat-D-E-S-Algo for random graph generation, Mat-ClustCoeff-Algo to compute local clustering coefficient, Mat-RC-Algo to compute rich-club coefficient). 

The repository contains 3 GML files:

1) Monolayer_Matrix_Mulitedges_pos_synap : A graph generated by Networkx which contains all the cells with their positions (x,y,z) and identification and all the synapses with all the positions (x,y,z) and identification. This graph is a multigraph since two cells can have multiple synapses connections at different locations.

2) Monolayer_Matrix_weighted : A graph generated by Networkx. Identical to the graph above but the multiple connections have been transformed into weight. It means that synaptic locations and identification information are non present and each edge has a weight.

3) Final_graph_cleaned : Similar graph as 2) but two cell types categories have been removed (No more others or unknown types). It only contains GC,NAC,MWAC and BC cells type.

